Web hosting - Case Study (#14)
NoroffFEU/development-platforms: web-hosting-case-study.md

### 2006 – Amazon launched Amazon Web Services

In 2006, Amazon Web Services (AWS) began offering  IT infrastructure services to businesses around the USA and the world in the form of  web services, which is now known as cloud  computing. But why is AWS the biggest and most popular? It became and are the biggest because it offered a fullstack of services, user-friendly management and also a "pay-on-the-go" business modal. You remember I said AWS is the biggest and most popular? Yes thats because Amazon currently, as we speak, holds almost 50% of the cloud services market, making it way bigger than its competitors.

### 2008 -  GitHub Pages is launched.

> Github created Github Pages in 2008, it`s a static web hosting service for project documentation, blogs and books etc. Github pages content is stored in a Git repository in two kinds of way, you can do it as files served to visitors verbatim, and the other way is in a markdown format.Github works trough Jekyll static website an blog generator. Basically each time the content source is updated, Jekyll regenerates the website  and automatically  serves it via Github Pages tool. Github have both free and  and paid tiers of service, which makes it very popular for school and work related stuff. Github pages supports HTTPS encryption and one one more thing to notice is that websites generated through this service are either hosted as subdomains of the Github.io domain or it can be connected to custom  domains which is bought through a third-party domain name registrar.

Author: Fixed it.

- The number of registered domain names which is registered in total around the world is more than 350 million.

## Popular Web Hosting Services

![web-hosting-services-image](https://miro.medium.com/max/770/1*8pUxJGcs7qfttu_pX9k1Rg.jpeg)

### - www.bluehost.com

#### Bluehost - Extremely fast and reliable hosting with plenty of advanced security add-ons.

### - www.hostgator.com

#### HostGator -Easy and affordable web hosting with intuitive site building tools

### - www.hostinger.com

#### Hostinger -Scalable hosting solutions for fast websites

### - https://no.godaddy.com/

#### GoDaddy -Complete hosting solutions for any website

### - www.networksolutions.com

#### Network Solutions -Cloud-based web hosting with easy-to-upgrade packages

### - www.web.com

#### Web.com -Everything you need to build and host your website

### - www.dreamhost.com

#### DreamHost -Flexible hosting solutions to ensure your success

### - www.a2hosting.com

#### A2 Hosting -High-powered web hosting with plans to suit your unique needs

## Features

![features-image](https://www.upvoty.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/features.png)

### Disk Space

> Disk space is basically the total amount of data that a hard disk/hard drive can store. Disk capacity is displayed usually in three different ways: 

Author: I have answered the answer to this question in the file. Fixed it.

- MB (megabytes)

- GB (gigabytes)

- TB (terabytes)

### Bandwidth

> With Bandwidth feature, you can load your website faster, because loading time can take tme and is the time it takes to transfer different website files. 

Author: I have answered the answer to this question in the file. Fixed it.

### Security

Security is something everyone should have, these days no one is safe. According to Fundera, 43% of small businesses are victims of cyber attacks. If you have the right web host, then you could prevent being attacked from cyber attacks. 

Some web hosting plan you should consider are:

- SSL certificates

- Automated malware scans

- Firewall management

And if you are working with Bluehost’s Managed WordPress hosting plan, then you could sign up to this, and it will give you additional security features such as:

- Secure shell (SSH) access

- Multi-factor authentication

- Domain privacy

### Uptime

> What Uptime do is that it measures te percentage of time your website is up and available to the users who visit your site. With other words, the closer to 100% uptime, the better. If you use the best web hosting, it van provide high uptimes by offering backup servers and backup servers in multiple locations. Many web hosts have uptime, one example is Bluehost, which have 99.9% uptime.

Author: Fixed it.

### Website Speed

> Website speed helps loading your website faster, if you are using the right tools. Not only does website speed affect user experience, but it also does affect search engine optimization (SEO). With good web hosting companies, you can use:

Author: Fixed the grammar. And answered the answer to this question in the file.

- Using servers with solid-state drives (SSD)

- Limiting sites on a shared server

- Offering a content delivery network (CDN) service

> With these right tools above, you can help users deliver quick page.

Author: Fixed it.

### Pre-installed apps

Here web hosts offer different web hosting features, but in a app, some of these apps include:

- cPanel

- One-Click Installer

- File Transfer Protocol

- E-Commerce Features

### Domain Names

> Your domain name is the digital address of your digital space on the internet. The reason behind making this was to find and identify internet entities, but without using IP addresses. A domain name is basically an Internet resource name that is universally understood by Web servers and online organizations and provides all pertinent destination information. This makes everything more safe and organized.

Author: I have answered the answer to this question in the file. Fixed it.

### Website Builder

> Website builder is a tool or program that can help you create a website without actual manual code editing. There is two times of website builders:

Author: Fixed it.

- Offline Website Builders

> - Online Website Builders

Author: I have answered the answer to this question in the file. Fixed it.

### Support

Most of the times you can never create a website 100% error-free, there will always bee some errors down the road which you will have to figure out how to fix. In those cases, a technical support team is something you will need. The biggest and best web hosting providers provide 24/7 customer support in many different ways, these can be such as:

- Knowledge bases

- Forums

- Live chat

- Chatbots

- Email support

- Calls

### Backups 

> Backups is very important. It can prevent data loss, which is very important. It does not matter how good your website is, a website can always get hit by something which will take the website down. A good web hosting company should restore your website with minimal downtime and make frequent automatic backups of your website to like I said prevent data loss.

Author: Fixed it.

## Strengths

![strengths-image](http://nejcslovnik.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/Image_web.jpg)

### Shared Hosting

- Low cost: one of the strengths with web hosting is low cost, , thats one of the main advantages.

> - Easy to use: it`s easy to use web hosting where it is simple to install and maintain the site trough a system where you just "click and drag" when facilitating the process.

Author: Fixed it.

- Technical Support: the good thing is that the technical support is guaranteed by most of the  companies that offer web hosting, so it`s not scary or a risk to do it if you are not sure. Here the user will get help with important factors, such as the website itself, the server and configuration requirements.

> - Resources: another advance is resources, here you can get a collection of resources that can grow and get bigger while following the websites requirements and demands.

Author: Fixed it.

### VPS Hosting (Virtual Private Server)

> - One of the strengths with VPS is that it works better than shared hosting because it has improved performance and security, something shared hosting don`t have.

Author: Fixed it. I have answered the answer to this question in the file.

> - It`s cost benefit, it saves you money.

Author: Fixed it.

> - Get the acquisition and maintenance of the equipment, and you will get reduction in the cost.

Author: Fixed it.

### Dedicated Server Hosting

> - The biggest strength is that it`s very safe, zero risk of being harmed by other companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The biggest strength is that it's very safe, zero risk of being harmed by other companies.
```

This is quite a bold statement... Do you have a source for it?

Author: Fixed the grammar. And answered the answer to this question in the file.
